#summary This page gives the detail of each and every step of the development process.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Deploy,Phase-Support

= Development Tracker Document =



== Date : 12th March 2009 ==
Written By Deepak Shakya

Following software have been installed for setting up the server environment. The server environment is Linux based.<br/>
1. [http://www.python.org/download/ Python 2.5]<br/>
2. [http://www.nltk.org/download Natural Language Toolkit]<br/>
3. [http://sourceforge.net/projects/numpy NumPy] - Numerical Python adds a fast and sophisticated array facility to the Python language. NumPy is the most recent and most actively supported package.<br/>
4. [http://sourceforge.net/projects/matplotlib/ MatPlotLib] - Matplotlib is a pure python plotting library with the goal of making publication quality plots using a syntax familiar to matlab users. The library uses numpy for handling large data sets and supports a variety of output backends<br/>
5. [http://www.cs.unm.edu/~mccune/mace4/ Prover9] - Prover9 is an automated theorem prover for first-order and equational logic, and Mace4 searches for finite models and counter examples.<br/>
6. [http://pybrain.org/ PyBrain] - yBrain is a modular Machine Learning Library for Python. It's goal is to offer flexible, easy-to-use yet still powerful algorithms for Machine Learning Tasks and a variety of predefined environments to test and compare your algorithms.<br/>
7. [http://vpython.org/ VPython] - 

----
=== Python 2.5 ===
One can compile the source code for Python 2.5. For debian systems, type following command<br/>

`sudo apt-get install python`<br/><br/>



=== Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK) ===
Obtain the zip file from [http://nltk.googlecode.com/files/nltk-0.9.8.zip here]. Extract and install the toolkit by running `setup.py`<br/><br/>
To get the NLTK data -
 * `python -m nltk.downloader`<br/>
 * Select `wordnet` and `words` to fetch the list of words in the toolkit



=== NumPy - ===
`sudo apt-get install python-numpy` -- debian based systems<br/>
Download and compile the tar.gz for others<br/><br/>



=== MatPlotLib ===
`sudo apt-get install python-matplotlib` -- debian based systems<br/>
Download and compile the tar.gz for others.<br/><br/>


=== Prover9 ===
`sudo apt-get install prover9` -- debian based systems<br/>
Download the tar.gz [http://www.cs.unm.edu/%7Emccune/prover9/gui/p9m4-v05.tar.gz here] and compile it.<br/><br/>

=== PyBrain ===
[http://pybrain.org/docs/quickstart/installation.html Here] you would find the steps to install the PyBrain library.<br/>
We preferred the zip version to compile the code. Got some error with g++<br/>
Here is the error looks like --<br/>
`distutils.errors.CompileError: command 'g++' failed with exit status 1`<br/>
<br/>
Exact details of the error are --<br/>
`arac/src/c/layers/common.c: In function 'void make_layer(Layer*, int, int)':<br/>
arac/src/c/layers/common.c:12: error: ‘malloc’ was not declared in this scope<br/>
arac/src/c/layers/common.c: In function 'Layer* make_layer(int, int)':<br/>
arac/src/c/layers/common.c:40: error: 'malloc' was not declared in this scope`
<br/><br/>

So, got the patch [http://mglab.blogspot.com/2009/03/pythonpybrain-0.html here]. Its in Japanese and was not getting translated. But, i guess the solution was pretty simple so my very good friends knightsamar phrased it out... ;) Kudos to you. Here is what he did.<br/>
 * open this file in the extracted folder - arac/src/c/common.h
 * insert `#include<stdlib.h>` in the file and save it.
 * `sudo python setup.py build` and then `sudo python setup.py install`
The same steps are available at that Japanese site.<br/><br/>


=== VPython ===
This one is trickier. You have to get some other stuff before you can compile this one.<br/>
--GtkGLExt
 * <strike>[http://www.sgi.com/products/software/opensource/glx/ GLX] - you will need this. So download and extract it. Copy the folder into the gtkglext folder. And copy the header files in the top level directory</strike>
 * Install `libgl1-mesa-glx`, `mesa-dev`, and `mesa-common-dev`
 * Then install this `sudo apt-get install freeglut3 freeglut3-dev`.
 * Now the `make` create the problem. Anyways, commented the line 41 in following file - `gtkglext-1.2.0/gdk/x11/gdkglglxext.h`.
 * `make install` - if you're lucky enough, you might get the stuff done.
--GtkGLExtmm
 * [http://gtkglext.sourceforge.net/ GtkGLExt - OpenGL Extension to GTK+] - Get  and gtkglextmm packages.<br/>
 * It gives following errors.<br/>
<center>
<pre>
`No package 'gtkmm-2.4' found
No package 'gdkmm-2.4' found
No package 'pangomm-1.4' found`
</pre></center>
So we installed the gtkmm (`libgtkmm-2.4-dev`) package which i guess has gdkmm and pango as their dependent packages. Anyways, the package got compiled. Kudos to the knightsamar once again...;)
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
Day Close Note -
 * Still have to compile vpython
 * Checked the nltk for synonyms - chapter 2 of the book (Got synonyms, definition, examples)


----